# Neuroenhancements, Autonomy, Changing Identity and the Idea of Self
Neuroethics attempts to tackle the social, moral, and ethical problems raised by the developing field of neurotechnology, from socially systematic issues such as discrimination and inequality to abstract notions like the undermining of agency and human identity. Neurotechnology and its applications open up opportunities for the invasion and manipulation of the human brain and thoughts. The decisions and applications of where said data can be used is the heart of neuroethics, but there is no clear line to what is deemed “morally correct” or not. 
By collecting different pieces of neurodata that are relevant to its goals, there are opportunities to misuse the information or even use technology to enhance certain aspects of ourselves. The concept of transhumanism and the possibility of enhancing specific traits brings the issues of placing certain individuals with clear advantages, especially those that can afford such enhancements. For instance, brain computer interfaces could serve as mechanisms for physical performance enhancement. By translating brain activities to control external devices, having the opportunity to use BCIs could assist with cognitive and motor abilities that others do not have the chance to use. Not only does transhumanism raise questions of the morality behind using neurotechnology in this manner, but highlights the possibilities of certain groups gaining access to advantages that others don’t have. For example, those in higher socioeconomic classes will likely be the ones to gain from these advances in neurotech, leaving the rest of society behind, only furthering the division in our society.
Neurotechnology can also find itself changing our sense of autonomy and identity. Autonomy can be understood as the ability for our minds to independently control our thoughts and behavior. This control over ourselves is formative over our actions and what makes up who we are. The concept of neurotechnology expanding far enough to be able to manipulate our brains then brings up a multitude of concerns, the greatest being the possibility of mind control through this technology. While it does not have to go as far as mind control, neurotechnology and the data gathered from such devices have already made their way into marketing and taking advantage of our behavior. For instance, using technology to find out the neural substrates of reward and choices to influence marketing strategies is one way in which the data from neurotechnology has taken advantage of our subliminal thoughts. 
Our thoughts, both conscious and subconscious, are formative in making up who we are, or the concept of “self”. Although the “self” is not very well defined, it does have its roots in our behaviors, thought processes, opinions, and memories. With this, how far should technology be taken in terms of changing ourselves? Should there be ways in which neurotech can selectively edit parts of ourselves and personalities? Should we be able to manipulate memories and change them to our liking? These questions are at the forefront of what extent neurotechnology should be taken when referencing the concepts that make up our identities. 
Technology has a multitude of applications that render themselves as extremely informative. But with such technology, there does become the threat of our personal autonomy and identity that needs to be thoroughly thought through before decisions are made. And while there is no definite answer or boundary for how far neurotechnology should be taken, neuroethics is working on how to better understand our values and limitations as a society and how to incorporate them into the world of neuroscience.  